# REST Countries API

No installations or API keys needed. Use this [GitHub page](https://evenstevenh.github.io/country-app/) to check it out!

A project to practice front-end development! It integrates the [REST Countries API](https://restcountries.com/) to pull and display data about countries, such as their flag, population, and capital. I started by setting up the HTML structure; semantic elements (such as `main` and `section`), inputs with labels (for screen readers) to grab user inputs, and a button to switch the theme. I then wrote functionality to switch between light and dark modes with an eased transition, and added `localStorage` to remember the user's setting. When refreshing sessions with dark mode on, I had to prevent FOUC (flash of unstyled content) with an extra internal script in the HTML to run immediately before everything is painted. I also discovered and applied Google icons to all my buttons for a bit of visual appeal. 

Afterwards, I moved into writing functions to display information about countries. The API's documentation states that there was a limit of 10 fields per call, so I had to make two calls and merge the retrieved data into the full country object for usage. I set it up so that all user inputs dynamically search, filter, and update the list of relevant countries. The user could get more information for a selected country, and do the same for bordering countries. With the core functionalities near-complete, I added a media query (for responsive viewing on smaller screens), hover/focus states, and error handling. I also refactored my functions utilize DOM manipulation techniques instead of `innerHTML`. Finally, I deployed using GitHub Pages. It has been my favorite option for sharing my projects, especially for simple websites and APIs that can be used without keys.